# Creative-Computing-Project / Nadia Pearce **The importance of community in creative computing** 

The tech-world since its beginnings has been flawed. It was created by the **elite, run by cis-straight wite men with a narrow perspective and an agenda of exploitation and exclusion.** They focused on individuals as opposed to society bringing it down to a purley producer-consumer relationship maintained by inaccessibility and a lack of education. Those without financial means were kept out and without education the constant changes in the industry prevented consumers from challenging. 
Perhaps the worst thing about this though is that it is not in the past. **This is what is happening in our modern society.**

From my understanding creative computing is simply the combination of art and technology. With an increasingly rapid development of technology designers and artists are continually being sucked into this world and are now being included in the conversations. The bridging of the two is invoking large scale change to technology, it is being challenged, questioned and discussed. But what is it in creative computing that is having a positive influence on technology? In my opinion it is the **consideration and engagement of society and community.**

Creative computing is centred around ideas of **education, growth responsibility and critical thinking.** The approach held here is designed to enable and empower people previously cut out and ignored from the conversation to have a voice and an understanding of the world they are a part of. The world of creative computing educators so we can all be conscious and not simply be consumers and make steps to understand the gate kept areas of binary and technology. **The main way these ideas are met is again community.**

Within the world of creative computing there is now a range of spaces set up and designed to bring people together, **to empower and to educate.** They work with a society of people rather than individual consumers and work to design in a productive and welcoming way. One of the best examples of this being done is the Society Centered Design Manifesto. It works against the capitalist driven business models put in place and designs frameworks to change and challenge the ways we think to redefine our connections with each other and technology. Their manifesto was built by and designed for a community injecting empathy and understanding, putting the care of [people first to build trust in a world of exploitation. 
>If we put care first and at the center of our efforts, we can move away from delivering solely for individual and commercial interests.

As this change is occurring we are seeing a range of supportive communities forming and growing to work towards the same goal and **with the formation of these communities we are beginning to see change.** These communities are granting accessibility and they are representing. They are educating. Digi Gxl is really a perfect example of this. They are a community of women, trans, intersex and nonbinary people in animation and 3d design with the goal of championing their position in the technological world. They are not only an agency but a global support network that allows skills to be shared and questions to be asked in a non judgmental space where their voices are heard and amplified. This community is educating and in doing this it is leading change.
> We are passionate about inclusivity for our members, people being paid fairly and treated with respect within the industry 

***Conclusion***   
In the ever changing world of technology, **community is vital for not only directing change but slowing it down.** It is vital at this stage that we redistribute, through educating resource sharing and shifting our power system. Wen must be critical and we must challenge and to do both of these things we must press pause. However none of this can be done alone. Division is a key element of exploitation so to regain control we must come together to build spaces for learning and critical thinking. **Community is the key.**
